Kubernetes 1.20 feature blog - Third party device metrics hits G.A. (#25500)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2020-12-16-third-party-device-metrics-hits-ga.md

---
layout: blog

> title: 'Third Party Device Metrics Hits G.A'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Kubernetes 1.20: hird Party Device Metrics Reaches GA'
```
(and adjust slug to match - see other recent articles)

>  layout: blog
>  title: 'Third Party Device Metrics Hits G.A'
>  date: 2020-12-16
>  slug: third-party-device-metrics-hits-ga

Reviewer 2: Netlify build is failing due to the error below. I believe it's complaining about the spaces.
```
1:13:22 PM: Error: Error building site: "/opt/build/repo/content/en/blog/_posts/2020-12-16-third-party-device-metrics-hits-ga.md:2:1": EOF looking for end YAML front matter delimiter
```

```suggestion
layout: blog
title: 'Third Party Device Metrics Hits G.A'
date: 2020-12-16
slug: third-party-device-metrics-hits-ga
```

---

>  **Authors:** Renaud Gaubert, David Ashpole, and Pramod Ramarao

Reviewer: Typically we add company attributions, eg:
```markdown
**Authors:** Renaud Gaubert (ACME); David Ashpole (FooBar Inc); Pramod Ramarao (BarFoo Systems).
```

Reviewer 3: Renaud Gaubert (NVIDIA); David Ashpole (Google); Pramod Ramarao (NVIDIA)

Author: Added

>  With Kubernetes 1.20, infrastructure teams managing large scale Kubernetes clusters, are seeing the graduation of two exciting and long time coming features:

Reviewer: I'd write:
```suggestion
With Kubernetes 1.20, infrastructure teams who manage large scale Kubernetes clusters are seeing the graduation of two exciting and long awaited features:
```

>  * The Pod Resources API, introduced in 1.13 is finally graduating to GA. This allows Kubernetes plugins to obtain information about the node’s resource usage and assignment (e.g: which pod/container consumes which device)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * The Pod Resources API (introduced in 1.13) is finally graduating to GA. This allows Kubernetes plugins to obtain information about the node’s resource usage and assignment; for example: which pod/container consumes which device.
```

>  * The DisableAcceleratorMetrics feature, introduced in 1.19 is graduating to beta (and will be enabled by default). This removes device metrics reported by the kubelet in favor of the new plugin architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * The `DisableAcceleratorMetrics` feature (introduced in 1.19) is graduating to beta, and will be enabled by default. This removes device metrics reported by the kubelet in favor of the new plugin architecture.
```

Many of the features related to fundamental device support (device discovery, plugin, and monitoring) are reaching a strong level of stability.
Kubernetes users should see these features as stepping stones to enable more complex use cases (networking, scheduling, storage, etc.)!

> One such example is Non Uniform Memory Access (NUMA) placement, where when selecting a device, an application typically wants to ensure that data transfer between CPU Memory and Device Memory is as fast as possible. In some cases, incorrect NUMA placement can nullify the benefit of offloading compute to an external device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One such example is Non Uniform Memory Access (NUMA) placement where, when selecting a device, an application typically wants to ensure that data transfer between CPU Memory and Device Memory is as fast as possible. In some cases, incorrect NUMA placement can nullify the benefit of offloading compute to an external device.
```

If these are topics of interest to you, consider joining the [Kubernetes Node Special Insterest Group](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-node) (SIG) for all topics related to the Kubernetes node, the COD (container orchestrated device) workgroup for topics related to runtimes, or the resource management forum for topics related to resource management!

## The Pod Resources API - Why does it need to exist?

Kubernetes is a vendor neutral platform. If we want it to support device monitoring, adding vendor-specific code in the Kubernetes code base is not an ideal solution. Ultimately, devices are a domain where deep expertise is needed and the best people to add and maintain code in that area are the device vendors themselves.

The Pod Resources API was built as a solution to this issue. Each vendor can build and maintain their own out-of-tree monitoring plugin. This monitoring plugin, often deployed as a separate pod within a cluster, can then associate the metrics a device emits with the associated pod that's using it. 

> For example, the NVIDIA GPU dcgm-exporter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, use the NVIDIA GPU dcgm-exporter to scrape metrics in Prometheus format:
```
(or OpenMetrics format, but I think more people would recognize Prometheus)

```
$ curl -sL http://127.0.01:8080/metrics

# HELP DCGM_FI_DEV_SM_CLOCK SM clock frequency (in MHz).
# TYPE DCGM_FI_DEV_SM_CLOCK gauge
# HELP DCGM_FI_DEV_MEM_CLOCK Memory clock frequency (in MHz).
# TYPE DCGM_FI_DEV_MEM_CLOCK gauge
# HELP DCGM_FI_DEV_MEMORY_TEMP Memory temperature (in C).
# TYPE DCGM_FI_DEV_MEMORY_TEMP gauge
...
DCGM_FI_DEV_SM_CLOCK{gpu="0", UUID="GPU-604ac76c-d9cf-fef3-62e9-d92044ab6e52",container="foo",namespace="bar",pod="baz"} 139
DCGM_FI_DEV_MEM_CLOCK{gpu="0", UUID="GPU-604ac76c-d9cf-fef3-62e9-d92044ab6e52",container="foo",namespace="bar",pod="baz"} 405
DCGM_FI_DEV_MEMORY_TEMP{gpu="0", UUID="GPU-604ac76c-d9cf-fef3-62e9-d92044ab6e52",container="foo",namespace="bar",pod="baz"} 9223372036854775794
```

> Each agent is expected to adhere to the node monitoring guidelines. In other words, plugins are expected to generate prometheus metrics and new metrics should not have any dependency on the Kubernetes base directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each agent is expected to adhere to the node monitoring guidelines. In other words, plugins are expected to generate metrics in Prometheus format, and new metrics should not have any dependency on the Kubernetes base directly.
```
Can we link to those node monitoring guidelines?

This allows consumers of the metrics to use a compatible monitoring pipeline to collect and analyze metrics from a variety of agents, even if they are maintained by different vendors.

![Device metrics flowchart](/images/blog/2020-12-16-third-party-device-metrics-hits-ga/metrics-chart.png)

> ## Disabling the NVIDIA GPU metrics - Warning 

Reviewer: I suggest a custom fragment identifier:
```suggestion
## Disabling the NVIDIA GPU metrics - Warning {#nvidia-gpu-metrics-deprecated}
```

With the graduation of the plugin monitoring system, Kubernetes is deprecating the NVIDIA GPU metrics that are being reported by the kubelet.

> With the [DisableAcceleratorMetrics](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/system-metrics/#disable-accelerator-metrics) feature being enabled by default in Kubernetes 1.20, NVIDIA GPUs will no longer be special citizens  in Kubernetes. This is a good thing in the spirit of being vendor neutral and enabling the best suited people to maintain their plugin on their own release schedule!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the [DisableAcceleratorMetrics](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/system-metrics/#disable-accelerator-metrics) feature being enabled by default in Kubernetes 1.20, NVIDIA GPUs are no longer special citizens  in Kubernetes. This is a good thing in the spirit of being vendor-neutral, and enables the most suited people to maintain their plugin on their own release schedule!
```
?

> Users will now need to either install the [NVIDIA dcgm-exporter](https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-monitoring-tools) or [use bindings](https://github.com/nvidia/go-nvml) to gather more accurate and complete metrics about NVIDIA GPUs. They can no longer rely on metrics that were reported by kubelet, such as `nvidia_gpu_duty_cycle` or `nvidia_gpu_memory_used_bytes` which were used to gather NVIDIA GPU memory utilization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users will now need to either install the [NVIDIA GDGM exporter](https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-monitoring-tools) or use [bindings](https://github.com/nvidia/go-nvml) to gather more accurate and complete metrics about NVIDIA GPUs. This deprecation means that you can no longer rely on metrics that were reported by kubelet, such as `nvidia_gpu_duty_cycle` or `nvidia_gpu_memory_used_bytes` which were used to gather NVIDIA GPU memory utilization.
```
```

> Users will now need to either install the [NVIDIA GDGM exporter](https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-monitoring-tools) or use [bindings](https://github.com/nvidia/go-nvml) to gather more accurate and complete metrics about NVIDIA GPUs. This deprecation means that you can no longer rely on metrics that were reported by kubelet, such as `nvidia_gpu_duty_cycle` or `nvidia_gpu_memory_used_bytes` which were used to gather NVIDIA GPU memory utilization.

Reviewer 4: this should also be change from nvidia_gpu_* to container_accelerator_*

Author: done

> This means that users who used to rely on the NVIDIA GPU metrics reported by kubelet, will need to update their reference and deploy the NVIDIA plugin. Namely the different metrics reported by kubernetes map to the following metrics:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that users who used to rely on the NVIDIA GPU metrics reported by the kubelet, will need to update their reference and deploy the NVIDIA plugin. Namely the different metrics reported by Kubernetes map to the following metrics:
```

| Kubernetes Metrics              | NVIDIA dcgm-exporter metric                 |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |

> | `nvidia_gpu_duty_cycle`         | `DCGM_FI_DEV_GPU_UTIL`                      |

Reviewer 4: Where does the nvidia_gpu_duty_cycle come from?  The cAdvisor one is named container_accelerator_duty_cycle: https://github.com/google/cadvisor/blob/master/metrics/prometheus.go#L520

Reviewer 3: This is correct, metrics should be:
- `container_accelerator_memory_total_bytes`
- `container_accelerator_memory_used_bytes`
- `container_accelerator_duty_cycle`

Should have spinned an instance, thanks for pointing them out!

Author: Sounds good, I'll fix it right now

| `nvidia_gpu_memory_used_bytes`  | `DCGM_FI_DEV_FB_USED`                       |
| `nvidia_gpu_memory_total_bytes` | `DCGM_FI_DEV_FB_FREE + DCGM_FI_DEV_FB_USED` |

You might also be interested in other metrics such as `DCGM_FI_DEV_GPU_TEMP` (the GPU temperature) or DCGM_FI_DEV_POWER_USAGE (the power usage). The [default set](https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-monitoring-tools/blob/d5c9bb55b4d1529ca07068b7f81e690921ce2b59/etc/dcgm-exporter/default-counters.csv) is available in Nvidia's [Data Center GPU Manager documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/datacenter/dcgm/latest/dcgm-api/group__dcgmFieldIdentifiers.html).

> Note that users keep the ability to set the [DisableAcceleratorMetrics feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) to false, effectively re-enabling the ability for kubelet to report NVIDIA GPU metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that for this release you can still set the `DisableAcceleratorMetrics` [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) to _false_, effectively re-enabling the ability for the kubelet to report NVIDIA GPU metrics.
```
?

Another use-case is GPU telemetry, where GPU metrics can be associated with the containers and pods that the GPU is assigned to. One such example is the NVIDIA `dcgm-exporter`, but others can be easily built in the same paradigm.

The Pod Resources API is a simple gRPC service which informs clients of the pods the kubelet knows. The information concerns the devices assignment the kubelet made and the assignment of CPUs. This information is obtained from the internal state of the kubelet's Device Manager and CPU Manager respectively.

You can see below a sample example of the API and how a go client could use that information in a few lines:

```
service PodResourcesLister {
    rpc List(ListPodResourcesRequest) returns (ListPodResourcesResponse) {}
    rpc GetAllocatableResources(AllocatableResourcesRequest) returns (AllocatableResourcesResponse) {}

    // Kubernetes 1.21
    rpc Watch(WatchPodResourcesRequest) returns (stream WatchPodResourcesResponse) {}
}
```

> ```go

Reviewer: Aside: is this indentation canonical for Golang?

func main() {
	ctx, cancel := context.WithTimeout(context.Background(), connectionTimeout)
	defer cancel()

	socket := "/var/lib/kubelet/pod-resources/kubelet.sock"
	conn, err := grpc.DialContext(ctx, socket, grpc.WithInsecure(), grpc.WithBlock(),
		grpc.WithDialer(func(addr string, timeout time.Duration) (net.Conn, error) {
			return net.DialTimeout("unix", addr, timeout)
		}),
	)

	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

    client := podresourcesapi.NewPodResourcesListerClient(conn)
    resp, err := client.List(ctx, &podresourcesapi.ListPodResourcesRequest{})
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	net.Printf("%+v\n", resp)
}
```

> Finally, note that you can watch the number of requests made to the Pod Resources endpoint by watching the new kubelet metrics called “`pod_resources_endpoint_requests_total`”.

Reviewer 4: It might be useful to add that it is on the kubelet's /metrics endpoint.  Also, because it is in the kubelet subsystem, it gets the kubelet_ prefix added to it.

## Is device monitoring suitable for production? Can I extend it? Can I contribute?

> Yes! This feature released in 1.13, almost 2 years ago, has seen broad adoption, is already used by different cloud managed services (e.g: GCP) and with its graduation to G.A in Kubernetes 1.20, is production ready!

Reviewer 4: Also remove the mention of GCP, please.  I'm not sure what that would refer to if not GKE :).

Author: Done

> Yes! This feature released in 1.13, almost 2 years ago, has seen broad adoption, is already used by different cloud managed services (e.g: GCP/GKE) and with its graduation to G.A in Kubernetes 1.20, is production ready!

Reviewer 4: Can we remove the GKE reference?  I don't think GKE makes use of this feature yet.
